### Setup

VS Code should have Java jdk installed

Student VPN needs to be installed on linux machine

#### Required extensions
- Extension Pack for Java
- Do not have intellicode installed due to it being depreciated and may cause errors
- vscode-pdf -- labs may be pdf documents.
- Remote - SSH -- allow connection to cs3667 server (+ remote-ssh and remote-ssh: editing config files and remote explorer)

Optional:
- Material theme
- material icon theme

#### Remote SSH Setup
requires: 
- Secure wifi or wired connection to use course vm
- easiest way to do this is just through appstate student vpn (Unknown if this is working on linux machine)

On the left-hand menu in VSCode you should see a new icon after installing Remote - SSH that looks like a computer monitor. Select it and you should see a menu like the image on the right. Hover over the SSH part of the menu and you should see two icons appear as shown in the screenshot below.
Click on the + icon to set up a connection to a new computer. You will see a popup like the screenshot below.

Type in your AppState username followed by @cs3667.cs.appstate.edu
For example, I would type: fenwickjb@cs3667.cs.appstate.edu

Hit enter and you should see a menu like the following appear.

Click enter again (selecting the first option). In the remote menu click the refresh button.

Expand the ssh menu and you should see the new connection in the list. Hover over it and you will see two icons appear. Click the arrow icon. VSCode will refresh and it will ask you the platform of the host. Select Linux.

Yes, you want to continue.

Enter your AsULearn password for the cs3667 machine. If everything goes well, you will now be connected to the cs3667 machine. It may hang, if it does, close VS Code and log in again.


##### Linux Additional Instructions
For Linux users, the Help page above isn't too helpful. Here's some more detail that worked for me a couple semesters ago. Ultimately, the Help Desk is the best place to go.

1. Download the OpenVPN zip file.
2. Call the Help Desk (828-262-6266) and tell them you need an access code because you are needing to use the student VPN for Linux and try to get them to let you have as many logins as they can give you - like 10 at least.(Duo authentication doesn't work on Linux so it's HelpDesk that gives you the code instead of Duo.) 
3. On Ubuntu the following steps worked for me. Hoping they do for you, and that they would work in other Linux distros.
4. To set up the VPN connection:
- Open the Activities overview and start typing Network.
- Click on Network to open the panel.
- Click the + button next to the VPN section to add a new connection.
- Select "Import from file"
- Choose which kind of VPN connection you have. (I selected 'ASU Student VPN.ovpn')
- Fill in the VPN connection details, (i.e. User/Pwd) The cert's should auto populate. Then press Add once you are finished.
- The Password is your regular AppState Shibboleth password BUT you need to append to your password a comma (,) and then the Help Desk code. All that as one string with no spaces.
It worked for me!

#### Installing Extensions Remotely
You should now be connected to the cs3667 machine, now click the extensions icon on the left-hand menu in VSCode.
You should see a dropdown menu which says “Local - Installed”. If the dropdown is “open” then you should see a list of the extensions you installed in step 2. Go ahead and “close” that dropdown to hide that list of extensions. 

Now, you should see another dropdown become visible (it was there all along just far below the list of extensions). This dropdown is for your remote VM. To the right of that line is a “cloud download” icon. Click that and follow the prompts to install all of your local extensions (step 2) onto the remote machine.

#### Navigating the remote machine
Go here to read the instructions for navigating the cs3667 machine in the terminal. This is very important, so do not continue until you have read through that document.

You should have some folders in your home directory already. You could also create them using the mkdir command (see previous document). To open a folder in VSCode, select the Open Folder option under the File dropdown

You will then see a dropdown like the following image. Click on the folder that you want to open and then click ok.

VSCode will reload and you will likely be prompted for your password again. You will then be able to start creating and editing files in that folder.

### Abstraction
Abstraction is useful because it allows us to reuse code by taking a step back from a direct solution. Abstraction preserves relevant information and ignores irrelevant details. It manages complexity by exposing only essential information.
1. Data Abstraction - Interacting with data through a defined interface without knowing how it's stored. ex: Lists, dictionaries, abstract data types like stacks or queues
2. Control Abstraction - Using control structures (loops, functions) without worrying about how they're implemented. (calling a function without knowing it's internal logic)
3. Language-level abstraction - High-level languages hide machine-level details, making code easier to write
Useful because -
- reduces cognitive load
- modular and reusable code
- easier to collaborate
- big systems can be build safely and predictably

### Polymorphism
The ability of a single interface, function, or operation to work with different types of data.
Polymorphism lets you write flexible, extensible, and clean code. Different classes can respond to the same method call in their own way.
1. Subtype Polymorphism
- A parent class reference can point to a child class object. Each child can override methods to behave differently.
2. Parametric Polymorphism
- A function or data structure works with any type (generics) (List<T>)
3. Ad Hoc Polymorphism
- Function overloading/Operator overloading. Multiple functions share the same name but differ in parameters or types
Example:
A function called draw()
- A circle class implements draw() by drawing a circle
- A Square class implements draw() by drawing a square.
You can call shape.draw() without knowing what kind of shape it is.